This message comes from Sony Pictures Classics with Nuremberg.
The allies seek justice for the Holocaust.
The chief prosecutor leads the trial of the century while a U.S. Army psychiatrist battles Herman Goering's mind.
Nuremberg starts Friday only in theaters.
Heads up, this episode contains some salty language, but that's all right.
As Americans.
Hey everyone, you're listening to Code Switch, the show about race and identity from NPR.
I'm B.A. Parker, and I'm joined today by our senior editor, Leah Dinella.
Hey, Leah.
Hey, Parker.
All right, what do you got for us today?
Okay, today I want to talk about something that has been a little bit of a hot topic recently, freedom of speech.
Yes.
So, Parker, as you likely remember, very early in this current presidential administration, President Trump signed a whole lot of executive actions.
Like in January of 2025, he signed almost 50 executive actions or executive orders.
So many, so many, lots to do.
So many things to do.
Yep.
And one of those executive actions was called, all caps, Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship.
And that action said it was an attempt to reinstate free speech protections, especially on online platforms that had been, quote, trampled by the Biden administration.
That's interesting, Leah, because the Trump administration has been accused by a number of people of infringing on people's free speech.
There are a lot of lawsuits in progress alleging that the Trump administration is unlawfully restricting people's First Amendment rights, including, we should say, one by NPR.
Indeed.
And for months now, politicians on both the right and the left have been sounding the alarm that free speech is under attack.
Republicans are going apoplectic.
because Americans are exercising their right to free speech.
If we don't have free speech, then we just don't have a free country.
It's as simple as that.
The government's attempt to weaponize this moment into an all-out assault on free speech across the country.
But we also know that there have been infringements on free speech that actually... And look, concerns about the government blocking free speech aren't particularly new, nor are they limited to one party.
I mean, during the Biden administration, folks on the right were concerned about censorship when the White House pressured social media sites to remove misinformation about election fraud and COVID.
Right.
And you know one of the concerns was that this guidance would be used more broadly to censor anyone who was skeptical of the way the government was handling the pandemic or you know people who opposed vaccines or mask mandates.
They worried that you could shut down a lot of dissent under these auspices.
These days, worries about free speech really picked up steam after Charlie Kirk was killed in September, when people both in government and other industries got fired for posting comments about Kirk that were perceived as negative or insensitive.
Including people like Jimmy Kimmel, who was almost fired until that got dialed all the way back.
Disney and the ABC network are taking Jimmy Kimmel live off the air indefinitely.
Jimmy Kimmel has been muzzled and taken off the air by his network, ABC, who are... Let's get back to our breaking news.
Jimmy Kimmel live will return to ABC.
Walt Disney says... And of course, all of this is set against this larger backdrop of the Trump administration being criticized for tamping down on speech everywhere, from universities to protests to the media.
Right.
And so now a lot of people across the political spectrum feel like they are the defenders of free speech while also arguably trying to silence people's speech.
Right.
So thinking about all of this, I started wondering, like, if everyone thinks that their free speech is being restricted and everyone thinks that they're the party of free speech and everyone is for free speech and anti-censorship, What do these concepts actually mean?
Like, are they even useful?
And that's when I came across the work of some people who were saying that it's probably worth unpacking where our modern ideas of free speech actually come from.
So free speech is an idea invented in the 18th century by the same kinds of European men who then go around the world telling other people to shut up.
Women, shut up.
Brown people, shut up.
Natives, shut up.
Black people, shut up.
Slaves, can't even make a sound.
Eww.
That's Farah Diboywila.
He's a historian, and he's one of several people I spoke to who said that free speech is a simple motto that stands in for a very complex and often contradictory set of principles.
You know, ones that are not always quite as liberatory as you might hope.
Leah, are we about to do an anti-free speech episode?
Okay, Parker, we're just gonna be giving air to some controversial, maybe unpopular, maybe even some radical opinions.
And isn't that, like, the most pro-free speech episode we could make?
Girl, I guess.
We're gonna try.
Hey, I'm Dawoud Tyler-Amin.
And I'm Ann Powers.
We are an editor and a critic at NPR Music, and we're also friends who love digging into music histories and thinking about how songs can change over time.
And we're doing that on a new show.
We're totally nerding out about the songs that just stick with us and why.
Find our first episode in the All Songs Considered feed on October 23rd.
On the ThruLine podcast from NPR, the story of the undersea cables that run the internet.
Other historians have compared it to the Apollo missions of going to the moon.
Listen to ThruLine in the NPR app or wherever you get your podcasts.
OK, so Parker, I feel like we got to start with a little level setting about what freedom of speech actually means in the United States.
And to do that, I want to introduce you to a lawyer named Samantha Barbas.
I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about freedom of speech in society generally.
Samantha teaches at the University of Iowa Law School.
And she explained that a lot of people think of freedom of speech as this broad, sweeping ideal.
Like, that if you're living in a country with free speech, you are allowed to say anything you want, anywhere you want, to whomever you want.
And there should be no consequences.
But while U.S. society sort of broadly puts a lot of stock in this, you know, general concept of free speech, the way that speech is legally protected in the U.S. is pretty narrow.
So some will say, well, my employer fired me because of a statement I made or a social media post they didn't like.
Aren't my First Amendment rights being violated?
And the answer is no.
So the First Amendment, which is the amendment that establishes freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, that is actually very limited.
It's the right to say what you want, in particular to criticize the government or speak out on political issues without being punished for it.
But the First Amendment only applies to government action, not the actions of private citizens or corporations.
So the government can't throw you in jail for what you say, but that doesn't mean anyone else has to put up with it.
Canceling people is allowed.
But Leah, even within the First Amendment, there are some exceptions to what you can say without getting in legal trouble, right?
Like, you can't go around making bomb threats or something.
Right.
And so this is interesting.
Samantha says the law does put limits on obscenity, true threats, and incitement.
So, you know, bomb threats, as you mentioned, and that's also why we can't say words like **** and **** on the radio.
But the more interesting thing, I think, is what people are allowed to say.
So unlike in many other countries, offensive speech, insulting speech, and hate speech are all protected in the U.S. That's why I'm proud to be an American.
We protect the right to say racist things.
Stars and stripes forever.
I am saying this all tongue-in-cheek.
Please don't come at me.
U-S-A.
OK, but yeah, Parker, we're going to get into why hate speech is protected in a bit.
But first, I think it's worth going back in time a little to understand where this very important concept of freedom of speech comes from.
And to do that, obviously, we've got to talk to a historian.
Let's do it.
Farah Du Boiswala is an author and a professor at Princeton University.
And back in 2012, he published a book about the origins of our social attitudes on sex.
Which, as a historian, I describe what I call the sexual revolution of the 18th century, which is when people first started to think and argue that what you did with your own body was really nobody else's business.
OK, so not a book about free speech?
No, but it is what got him interested in free speech, because when the book came out, he was going all over the place trying to talk about what he'd learned.
And he realized that in a lot of places, in a lot of contexts, there were a bunch of things he actually could not say.
Like, he got in trouble for using the F-word live on BBC radio.
He was quoting a poem.
Life can little more supply than just a few good fucks and then we die.
That and a few other experiences made Farrer realize that he wasn't as unequivocally free to speak as he had once thought.
And that kind of bothered him.
And I think that's quite normal because all of us go around not wanting ourselves to be shut up.
It's a very powerful emotional response that anyone has who's censored or told that they can't say something.
So he set out on a journey to better understand how free speech actually works.
He read a ton of Supreme Court cases that had taken on questions around the First Amendment.
I realized that actually, first of all, the Supreme Court's definitions are very curiously changeable over time in a way that supposedly they're not changing.
So he went back even further.
He started reading earlier articulations of free speech from people like George Orwell and John Milton and John Stuart Mills.
And he realized that those texts weren't getting him much further.
And I'm afraid the short answer is that it's not possible, really.
to make a watertight theory of free speech because not only is it always entangled with power, but it also depends on denying certain basic fundamental truths about how communication actually works.
Like the fact that not everyone is free in the same ways.
You know, someone who's independently wealthy doesn't really have to worry about getting fired for expressing an opinion, whereas someone who is struggling to support a family probably needs to be really careful about saying something controversial.
And then, of course, not everyone has the same platform.
Yeah, like, if Donald Trump says something, no matter how wild, it's going to be covered by the nightly news, by every network.
Whereas if my great aunt says something, no matter how brilliant, there are about, like, three people who are going to hear it.
Exactly.
Our way of thinking is the modern ideal of free speech is basically that all of us have the right to speak out on matters of public concern.
Political free speech, if you like.
That's the core of how we think of free speech.
That idea is only about 300 years ago.
Before that, Farah said, in most societies, it was kind of a given that speech was going to be regulated in certain ways.
And there were very important reasons for that.
If you go around spreading untruths, then that leads to riots, pogroms, and massacres, bloodshed.
We see that throughout history.
Different religious groups, different racial groups, medical misinformation, et cetera, et cetera.
This is a real problem.
And so in the past, people thought that the way to deal with that was simply to regulate as clearly as you could, as sharply as you could, especially technologies of mass communication.
Makes sense.
So, Parker, I know a lot of people like to think of free speech as a particularly American ideal.
But in fact, the way we conceive of free speech actually comes from, I'm sorry to say, England.
What?
You mean the people who taxed us without representing us?
I don't think so.
Unfortunately, it's true.
So we got to do a quick British history lesson.
So up until about 1700, Ferris said that newspapers in England had this thing called prior censorship, which meant that they had to get anything controversial that they were going to print cleared in advance by censors, usually government or church-appointed censors.
And this was the norm in many parts of the world.
But then these two journalists, John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon, show up on the scene, and they start publishing a series of essays called Cato's Letters that are, you know, making some arguments.
First of all, that freedom of speech is the foundation of all freedom, the foundation of all liberty.
It's the most important freedom of all.
They also argue that governments are all essentially corrupt and power-hungry, and that common people are virtuous and need to hold their officials to account.
So an old-school Woodward and Bernstein.
We're into it.
Okay.
Yeah, right?
And they say, basically, that freedom of speech is critical for doing this, and that free expression can never really harm anybody.
And Farah said, this text becomes kind of foundational to the way we think about free speech today.
It's the origin of the First Amendment, really.
And I discovered two extraordinary things about it that no one had ever noticed before.
OK, Farah, no brag.
What did he discover?
Well, the first thing is that the argument these two guys are making is pretty self-serving.
Like, the two writers have major beef with the government of the time.
They want certain government ministers to be overthrown.
They are very much partisan journalists.
But they're pretending to be kind of neutral observers just telling you timeless truths from on high.
By the way, Ferris said that the public sphere is super corrupt at the time.
Like, everyone is writing for money.
They all have agendas.
No one is just trying to serve the public interest.
They are writing in order to gain notice from the government and then to be paid off, bought off and switched sides as they eventually do.
So Thomas Gordon writes these columns anonymously and pretty soon he gets contacted by ministers in the government saying, hey, Mr. Gordon, you are such a great writer, and why are you wasting your time just, you know, rabble-rousing like this, writing for no money at all?
We can pay you much better.
Why don't you come over and write for us?" And he starts simultaneously writing Cato's letters and, in which he says, you know, people are always right, governors are always corrupt, and at the same time starts then writing government propaganda where he says the opposite with equal rhetorical flourish.
In his counter column, he talks about how the world is full of misinformation, it's easy for people to be misled, they're sheeple, the government is looking out for the best interests of everyone, you know, public statements really need to be carefully handled.
And eventually, he stops writing Cato's letters completely and… He becomes the government's chief spin doctor.
For 20 years he grows rich and fat.
Wow, so the texts that underline our belief in freedom of speech were based on things that were written by some corrupt dudes who were just saying whatever they thought would get them the most power and money?
Basically.
And Farrah said, look, All kinds of people all over the world have long tried to assert their ability to express themselves.
You know, say what they believe, have a voice in the public sphere.
You know, women are doing that.
People of color are doing that.
People all over the world.
But our current notions of free speech come from white European men from the 18th and 19th centuries.
Everywhere that I trace this in my book, in the West Indies, in North America, In India, it's an imperialist ideology.
But there's something there that connects directly to the present, which is how free speech works, both as a theory and a practice, is always about power.
It's always about certain voices being heard more loudly than others, and about the silencing of some in order to amplify others.
That's still going on today.
So, Parker, I think that background is useful as we try to understand how free speech works in the U.S. and around the world today.
Put very simply, some people have a lot more power to speak than others.
And when they do speak, they're listened to and heard, whereas other people, they might have some great ideas, but those ideas don't land because their voices are marginalized.
All right, Leah, some juicy stuff coming up after the break.
Stay with us.
Parker.
Leah.
Code switch.
And we're back talking about free speech and some of the contradictions baked into that idea.
And before the break, we heard from Farah Duboivola, an historian who talked about where our modern notion of free speech came from.
Yep.
Sarah explained that the idea of free speech has always been wielded in contradictory ways by people with very different purposes.
And to understand that even more, I want to come back to the other person we heard from earlier, Samantha Barbas.
She's a lawyer who focuses on free speech, right?
And Parker, remember she was saying that in the U.S. hate speech is not restricted.
It's not illegal.
Oh, I remember.
We reserve the right to say bigoted things.
We sure do.
But maybe not for the reasons you might imagine.
Because here's the thing.
A big reason that we don't have laws preventing hate speech is the civil rights movement.
Now, why are we in it?
Well, in the 20th century, Samantha says some states actually were toying with adopting hate speech laws, but... Groups like the NAACP, the American Jewish Committee, believe that hate speech laws would actually, in the long run, hurt minority groups more than help them.
All right, so how so?
Samantha said that hate speech laws often use terms like offense, insult, and insight to racial hatred, as in, like, speech that causes insult to a group of people based on race will heretofore be banned under Mississippi state law.
But those terms were so vague that civil rights groups argued they could eventually be used against the very people they were designed to protect.
When you say that the government can suppress speech that is offensive or insulting, you're basically giving the government a blank check to suppress the speech that it disagrees with.
And that could be very dangerous to any unpopular group.
So actually in the South, hate speech laws were used against civil rights activists who were challenging segregation and poll taxes under the argument that they were insulting or offending the white majority.
It feels like there's some of that going on right now, right?
Absolutely.
I mean, I don't know if you remember this, but in June, the Proud Boys sued the U.S. government on claims of, quote, political persecution.
And they were being persecuted, they said, for being, again, quote, allies of President Trump.
The Proud Boys filing this suit, as you probably know, were central participants in the January 6th attack on the Capitol.
I understand why you wouldn't want to make hate speech illegal, but that doesn't mean we're just supposed to live with it, right?
No, I mean, Samantha said it's worth noting that even though other countries do have robust hate speech laws, they don't actually have less hate speech than the U.S. necessarily.
You know, the United States has come a long way in terms of reducing hate and promoting tolerance, and we've done that without legal restrictions on speech.
Education, counter speech, those have been really effective ways of promoting messages of equality and tolerance.
But Leah, the Trump administration is trying to dramatically change the type of education young people get in the United States.
I mean, one of his first executive actions was called Ending Radical Indoctrination in K-12 Schooling.
And that action said it was going to go after any schools that promoted, quote, gender ideology or discriminatory equity ideology, end quote.
Yeah, Samantha talked about that being a huge concern.
If we cut back on that education, there could very well be a more kind of fertile climate for these hate groups to take off and to spread their messages.
Yikes.
Samantha also brought up counter speech, which is basically speech that's supposed to provide alternate messaging to hate speech, misinformation, the like.
So how are we doing with that?
Well, look, Parker, I mean, it's tough.
One of the places where hate speech and misinformation are being spread is social media, on platforms that have consciously decided that they are not going to put any restrictions around those things.
And as we mentioned earlier, the Trump administration has been connected to some of those decisions.
You know, they argue that limiting things, even hate speech and misinformation, is infringing on people's First Amendment rights.
More broadly, Samantha did say that we are in an incredibly dark time when it comes to freedom of speech.
A moment that is almost unprecedented in American history.
And indeed, the last time we had a period of speech repression that was this severe was the 1950s and the McCarthy period.
Right.
When the government spied on and persecuted anyone it thought might be a communist or sympathetic to communists.
I think that analogy is totally apt.
when we look at the kinds of government censorship that are taking place right now with the Trump administration's attacks on the universities, denying funding unless they suppress certain kinds of speech, the attacks on public media, denying funding because they are allegedly too biased or left-leaning.
There was the Jimmy Kimmel incident not long ago.
In terms of our historical record on free speech, I think we're not doing so well right now.
Oh, is that all?
Thank you, Leah.
I feel relieved.
I feel so much better after this part.
No, wait, I mean, OK, I know it probably sounds bad to a lot of people, but Samantha says that if history is any indication, that does not mean this country is doomed.
One thing that was really interesting about the McCarthy period is that it was followed by this tremendous renaissance of free speech in the 1960s.
And the courts expanding free speech law, the Warren Court, instituted some of the most robust free speech jurisprudence in our history.
And so it was almost as if we had to go through this period of crisis and repression in order to really take stock of the importance of freedom of speech, to understand why it's important, and ultimately rebound and recommit to freedom of speech.
OK, gut check, Parker, how you feeling?
I'll be real with you.
I'm so scared.
I don't want to have to go through a full on McCarthy era before we can make it to the other side.
Listen, I very much understand that.
So I want to introduce you to one more person who told me, yeah, like we need to be pushing back on all of this immediately.
We have to be unembarrassed.
to say that actually there are things, if you value equality, if you value equality, especially racial equality, gender equality, then there are things that should not be allowed to be said.
My ear's perked up.
Who's that?
His name is Anshuman Mondal.
He's a professor at the University of East Anglia in the UK and the author of a book called Racism and Free Speech.
And he told me that he thinks that people who are serious about fighting racism and, you know, fighting for justice actually need to be more okay with limiting speech, responsibly and within reason, of course.
Say more.
As we've talked about before, Anshu said free speech is very connected to power.
And if we don't think carefully about how that power is wielded, we can basically resign ourselves to living in a world where the only ideas that shape our society come from the people on top.
I'm a very strong person for free speech.
To me, it's a disqualifier to be president of the United States if you don't believe in freedom of speech.
I am one of those that believe our First Amendment is one of the greatest rights that we have.
A lot of people can talk a lot of nonsense and that still be passed for sense.
because they have power.
They have social power.
They have political power.
They have the power within the media.
They have economic power.
I think a lot of that is playing out today in our contemporary societies as well, because a lot of people who are talking about free speech and talking as if their free speech is being threatened, again, are actually the most powerful voices in the country.
Anshu said it wasn't always this way.
So if you look back to the 1960s and 70s, people on the left were really motivated by the idea of liberation.
And free speech is part of that because there were a whole series of ways in which society as it was then structured closed off speech that tried to think of society differently.
using moral codes and that sort of thing, you know, using religion and so on.
So free speech was really useful as part of that kind of effort to overthrow a sort of old traditional moral hierarchy.
Yeah, I'm thinking of all the anti-war protests, the racial justice protests, the hippie movement, free love.
All of that was fueled by people asserting their First Amendment rights.
Right.
And during that time period, Anshu says, there were also big developments when it came to understanding how race and racism worked.
So people were finally starting to disprove the idea that race was a biological reality.
You know, that idea of race science was being discredited.
What happened was that new generation of anti-racist thinkers realized, actually, it's the way we talk about human differences that creates those differences.
Those differences don't exist naturally in a state of nature, as it were.
And so allowing racist speech to circulate is one of the preconditions for a racist social order.
So it follows from there that if you want to overthrow a racist social order, you have to put certain blockages or closures on racist speech, because the two are entwined.
That's what led to a lot of U.S. colleges and universities developing different speech codes that created some community guidelines, essentially, around sexist, racist, and homophobic speech.
They saw that actually if you enable racist speech to circulate freely, or sexist speech, or homophobic speech, it actually shores up a sexist or a homophobic social order.
But Anshu said that people on the other side of things then realized, hold on, if we want to maintain the social order, we need people to keep saying racist, sexist things.
That's what keeps people in their place.
So he said, those people then took up the mantle of free speech.
So they started leveraging the First Amendment from about the 1980s onwards against these campus speech codes.
So it starts in the universities and then goes out.
This whole thing about political correctness gone mad first, you know.
And it's only now, 40 odd years later, that we're really in a position where that has come to complete maturity.
And that weaponization of free speech that began in the 80s against campus speech codes is now something that is being deployed socially, nationwide, both in your country and in mine, by the right, as a way of saying, look, those guys, those anti-racist guys on the left, they're totalitarian, censor, woke-type people.
You know, they won't let people think for themselves.
So you could see how the left's kind of The bid for liberation, for freedom, has been turned on its head, and now the left stands against freedom.
So everything is topsy-turvy, is essentially what is happening.
Total mirror upside-down world, yeah.
And Anju said one of the really insidious things about all of this is that racism isn't just a set of ideas.
It's actually a set of fantasies that are rooted in some ideas, but they're also rooted in emotions, fear, anger, resentment, all of those things.
Think about what black men being thought of as either muggers or rapists or whatever in a social imaginary of certain groups of people.
And he says those images and feelings are really hard to combat in the so-called marketplace of ideas because unraveling people's feelings and stereotypes and prejudices is much more complicated than just saying, oh no, black people actually aren't muggers.
Mexicans actually aren't rapists.
Haiti actually isn't a shithole country.
You know, we haven't got the firepower, if you like, the rhetorical, political, social firepower to challenge that just through argument alone.
Saliha, this all makes sense to me, but what does Anshu see as the solution?
Like, if free speech is allowing all these horrible realities to perpetuate, then do we have to start limiting free speech?
Well, Anshu said he's not advocating that we start throwing people in jail for, you know, saying something racist.
Unless, of course, it is a true incitement to violence.
But he says people who care about racial justice need to change the conversation.
We need to call people out when they are racist or when they engage in racist speech.
And we shouldn't be embarrassed to say there ought to be consequences for that.
So right now, he says, free speech is used often as this kind of trump card.
Like, okay, here's an example.
If students at a university protest a certain speaker and try to keep that person from speaking, they're often criticized as being anti-free speech.
And what Au Chiu is saying is, when you accept those terms of the argument and get pulled into a debate about who is more pro-free speech and anti-censorship, you can really lose the opportunity to make a bigger, more urgent point.
So instead, he said that people who care about fighting racism can use counterspeech, moral persuasion, social sanctioning, you know, cancelling, as some call it.
Social sanctioning?
That sounds more mature than cancelling.
Yes, it's a sophisticated man's cancelling.
Bringing that into the forefront, it's like you're embarrassing us, being socially sanctioned.
And then he also brought up this idea of blocking, a term that was coined by the Oxford philosopher, Ray Langton.
It's a form of counter speech which doesn't argue with the proposition, the racist speech.
It's a form of calling out that actually lays racism's cards on the table.
A lot of the racist language these days uses code.
It's not openly racist in the way it was before.
What blocking does is it calls out the presuppositions lying behind that code.
So, you know, my challenge to those who use the word woke is, you know, what is your problem here with people striving for equality?
What's your problem with inclusion?
What's your problem with diversity?
DEI has been used as another kind of these empty phrases that enables people to get away with not saying what they're really saying.
So draw that out.
So what is it?
What is it about equality that you don't like so much?
So basically, Anshu is saying people need to stop worrying over whether they're going to be labeled as anti-free speech and start refocusing conversations on the actual issues that matter more to them.
Right, and not to be afraid of making it clear that there are going to be social consequences for people who say offensive things.
You know, even if they're just small mundane social consequences, the things that come with living in society, like Anshu brought up the fact that he used to get bullied in school for being Indian.
It was those jokes about Indian accents.
It was the jokes about seeing my teeth in the dark, those sorts of things.
Because I was literally one of a handful of non-white people in the school, I just grinned, laughed it off.
I'm really deeply ashamed of that now.
I wish I had had the wherewithal and the courage and the capacity to speak back.
But actually most of us don't because we're scared.
we are not in a position to speak back sometimes.
But I don't think we should ever let it go.
Oh, boy.
Okay, Leah, it feels like what Anshu is saying is pretty reasonable.
But we're living in this moment that feels so high stakes, with Charlie Kirk being shot and killed, and the government wielding so much power to control people's speech.
Like, is it even possible to have nuanced conversations about what type of speech is acceptable?
I think in this moment, it is really, really hard.
But Anshu says to remember that these dramatic moments of violence and tension and uproar are exceptional.
And they are particularly prone to yielding really polarized reactions.
And so when we're having those conversations around moments like that, It actually does that job very, very well of creating the binary oppositions and sustaining them.
But most of life is not lived with those moments.
Most of social life is negotiation.
It's about to and fro.
Which means that if we want to live in a society that balances things like freedom and harm and equality and safety and opportunity and disagreement, we can't just say, this is free speech or this is censorship.
We have to be able to talk about all of these things that have come up, power and relationships and context.
Because if we can't talk about those things with nuance, we actually have even less ability to speak.
What the weaponization of free speech has done is to delegitimize, to actually disallow pushback, to actually disallow calling out.
By characterizing those people who push back or call out as woke totalitarians, what they're actually doing is saying, don't push back, don't speak up.
And that's a form of silencing.
That's what it's all about.
And that's what this weaponisation of free speech is hoping to achieve.
And that's our show.
You can follow us on Instagram at NPR Codeswitch.
If email is more your thing, ours is Codeswitch at NPR.org.
And subscribe to the podcast on the NPR app or wherever you get your podcasts.
You can also subscribe to the Codeswitch newsletter by going to NPR.org slash Codeswitch newsletter.
And just a reminder that signing up for Codeswitch Plus is a great way to support our show and public media and You'll get to listen to every episode sponsor-free. 

So please, go find out more at plus.
npr.org slash Codeswitch.
This episode was produced by Xavier Lopez and Jess Kung.
It was edited by Dalia Mortada.
Our engineer was Jimmy Healy.
And a big shout out to the rest of the Codeswitch massive, Christina Kala, Veralyn Williams, and Gene Demby.
I'm BA Parker.
And I'm Leah Dinella.
Hydrate.
Leah, you've done enough of these.
You need to sign off.
I'm going to bleep you.
I reserve my right not to speak freely, Parker.
